The biggest expense to hospitals is labor,
or paying for the wages and benefits of staff.
The next biggest expense to hospitals
is the cost of the supply chain,
which could be up to 40% of the budget.
As a result, it is important to manage
the supply chain as much as possible.
Supply chain costs have gone up over time
due to increases in prices of products,
costs to manage supplies, and the costs of labor to track.
The strategic marketplace uses a calculator
to project increasing costs to organizations in healthcare.
According to this calculator, it is predicted
that supply costs will outpace labor costs by 2022.
Logistics staff can make improvements
in their management of their supply chain performance
by managing and improving the purchasing process.
Making such improvements can decrease costs.
According to Gartner Research,
the projections of decreased costs
can be anywhere from 5%-15%.
The same researchers also say that this cost savings
can lead to an increase in profits
anywhere from 2%-7% total.
This approach ultimately leads to the ability
to reallocate funds for patient care
where it can serve our Veterans
and their families in the best possibly way.
The constant push to find ways
of doing things better and more efficiently
is an endeavor worth taking on.